README.md, before:

# sbhistory
Application to pull Sunny Boy inverter history and send to a InfluxDB 2.x or 1.8.x database

## Installation
Python 3.7 or better is required, you can then install the Python requirements for this application:
```
    git clone https://github.com/sillygoose/sbhistory
    cd sbhistory
    pip3 install -e .
```

## Use
Make sure your InfluxDB database has an infinite retention policy, or at least longer than the start date for data.

Copy the file `sample.yaml` to `sbhistory.yaml` and fill in the details for your local site and inverters.  Run the application from the command line using Python 3.7 or later:

```
    cd sbhistory
    python3 sbhistory.py
```

## Outputs
Outputs are one per inverter, and if there is more than one inverter in your site, a site-wide value named `site` is created from the sum of the inverter outputs.  In the current version two outputs can be selected to be sent to InfluxDB:
- daily_history

    Daily history is the inverter(s) Wh meter recorded at approximately midnight each day:

        _measurement    `production`
        _inverter       `inverter name(s)`, 'site'
        _field          `midnight`

    This makes finding the production for a day, month, year, or any period the difference between the two selected records.

- fine_history

    Fine history is the inverter(s) Wh meter recorded at 5 minute periods throughout the day:

        _measurement    `production`
        _inverter       `inverter name(s)`, `site`
        _field          `daily`

    Like the daily_history, production for a period is just a subtraction. But if you want to see the power in watts for a period you have to do some math. See the Flux `irradiance` script for how this is accomplished.

    NOTE: It seems that only the current years daily production data is stored on an inverter.

## Errors
If you happen to make errors and get locked out of your inverters (confirm by being unable to log into an inverter using the WebConnect browser interface), the Sunny Boy inverters can be reset by

- disconnect grid power from inverters (usually one or more breakers)
- disconnect DC power from the panels to the inverters (rotary switch on each inverter)
- wait 2 minutes
- restore DC power via each rotary switch
- restore grid power via breakers

## Thanks
Thanks for the following packages used to build this software:
- PYSMA library for WebConnect
    - http://www.github.com/kellerza/pysma
- YAML configuration file support
    - https://python-configuration.readthedocs.io
- Astral solar calculator
    - https://astral.readthedocs.io
- Tricks for managing startup and shutdown
    - https://github.com/wbenny/python-graceful-shutdown

Commit message:

Added midnight total for ease of queries

README.md, after:

# sbhistory
Application to pull Sunny Boy inverter history and send to a InfluxDB 2.x or 1.8.x database

## Installation
Python 3.7 or better is required, you can then install the Python requirements for this application:
```
    git clone https://github.com/sillygoose/sbhistory
    cd sbhistory
    pip3 install -e .
```

## Use
Make sure your InfluxDB database has an infinite retention policy, or at least longer than the start date for data.

Copy the file `sample.yaml` to `sbhistory.yaml` and fill in the details for your local site and inverters.  Run the application from the command line using Python 3.7 or later:

```
    cd sbhistory
    python3 sbhistory.py
```

## Outputs
Outputs are one per inverter, and if there is more than one inverter in your site, a site-wide value named `site` is created from the sum of the inverter outputs.  In the current version two outputs can be selected to be sent to InfluxDB:
- daily_history

    Daily history is the inverter(s) total Wh meter recorded at midnight (local time) each day:

        _measurement    `production`
        _inverter       `inverter name(s)`, 'site'
        _field          `midnight`

    This makes finding the production for a day, month, year, or any period the difference between the two selected records.

- fine_history

    Fine history is the inverter(s) total Wh meter recorded at 5 minute periods throughout the day:

        _measurement    `production`
        _inverter       `inverter name(s)`, `site`
        _field          `total_wh`

    Like the daily_history, production for a period is just a subtraction. But if you want to see the power in watts for a period you have to do some math. See the Flux `irradiance` script for how this is accomplished.

    NOTE: It seems that only the current years daily production data is stored on an inverter.

## Errors
If you happen to make errors and get locked out of your inverters (confirm by being unable to log into an inverter using the WebConnect browser interface), the Sunny Boy inverters can be reset by

- disconnect grid power from inverters (usually one or more breakers)
- disconnect DC power from the panels to the inverters (rotary switch on each inverter)
- wait 2 minutes
- restore DC power via each rotary switch
- restore grid power via breakers

## Thanks
Thanks for the following packages used to build this software:
- PYSMA library for WebConnect
    - http://www.github.com/kellerza/pysma
- YAML configuration file support
    - https://python-configuration.readthedocs.io
- Astral solar calculator
    - https://astral.readthedocs.io
- Tricks for managing startup and shutdown
    - https://github.com/wbenny/python-graceful-shutdown
